GIT
GIT is a version control system (VCS).
A Version Conotrol System is one in which changes to a file or a group of files are being tracked such that those changes can be recalled at any point in time.

We have 3 kinds or types of VCS:

1. Local VCS: Here, you make changes to your files on your local system and the changes are tracked but only on your system.
2. Centralised VCS: Here, a developer pulls out or checks out a file from the remote repository to his local repository, makes changes and pushes back to the remote repository. No one else can work on that file at the time it is pulled out.
3. Distributed VCS: Here, developers can pull files from the remote repo to their local repo, make changes from different locations, and mergge those changes to the remote repository.

Why VCS?
1. Traceability
2. Collaboration
3. Time saving
4. Logging/Tracking
5. Security
6. Snapshots of files and projects over time
7. Quality Control.
8. Manages project updates
9. Version management
10. Disaster recovery
11. Backup and recovery.
12. Storage

Git Installation: sudo yum install -y git
git config --global user.name "acadalearning"
git config --global user.email "info@acadalearning.com"

mkdir fintech
cd fintech
git init: to initialise the directory fintech for tracking
git status: to show the status of the working tree. 
git add <filename>: moves the commit from working directory to staging area
git commit -m "<commit message": moves the change from staging area to local repo
git commit -am "<commit message" moves directly from working dir to local repo, but only used for files that are already being tracked.
git log: to show a log of all commits made to the local repository
git log --oneline: for an abridged version of all the commits made
git log --since=<date>
git log --until=<date>
git log -3: to view the last 3 commits
git show <commit ID>: gives more detail about a commit
git diff <commit ID 1> <commit ID 2>: displays the difference between 2 commits.
git commit --amend -m <new message>: updates the latest commit message

